doc(pe): Document policy options (#601)
armory/docs: content/en/docs/plugin-guide/plugin-policy-engine/packages/spinnaker.http.authz/tasks/type.scaleManifest.md

---
title: "Task Type: scaleManifest"
linktitle: "scaleManifest"

> description: "Policy controls whether or not a scaleManifest that is triggered from outside a spinnaker pipeline (e.g. from the ‘Clusters’ tab of an application’s ‘edit’ action) can run."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "Policy that controls whether or not a scaleManifest that is triggered from outside of a pipeline (such as from the **Clusters** tab of an application’s **Edit** action) can run."
```

---

- **Path:** tasks
- **Method:** Post
- **Package:** `spinnaker.http.authz`

## Compatibility Note

Starting in 2.26, the UI has been updated to more closely follow immutable infrastructure principles.

When you navigate to the Infrastructure tab in the UI for an application that has the Kubernetes provider configured, actions that change the Kubernetes infrastructure (such as Create or Delete), including Clusters, Load Balancers, and Firewalls, are no longer available.

### Impact

Users do not see these actions in the UI by default. You must configure the UI to display them if you want your users to be able to perform them through the UI.

### Workaround

Whether or not these actions are available in the UI is controlled by the following property in `settings-local.yml`:

```yml
window.spinnakerSettings.kubernetesAdHocInfraWritesEnabled = <boolean>;
```

This setting must be applied in order for policy to conditionally allow this functionality.

> s

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

## Example Payload

<details><summary>Click to expand</summary>

```json
{
  "input": {
    "body": {
      "application": "hostname",
      "description": "Scale manifest",
      "job": [
        {
          "account": "spinnaker",
          "cloudProvider": "kubernetes",
          "location": "staging",
          "manifestName": "deployment hostname",
          "reason": null,
          "replicas": "5",
          "type": "scaleManifest",
          "user": "myUserName"
        }
      ]
    },
    "method": "POST",
    "path": [
      "tasks"
    ],
    "user": {
      "isAdmin": false,
      "roles": [],
      "username": "myUserName"
    }
  }
}
```
</details>

## Example Policy

> - This policy prevents requires users to enter a reason when performing a scale from outside or a pipeline.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- This policy requires users to enter a reason when performing a scale from outside or a pipeline.
```

        createsTaskOfType("scaleManifest")
        input.user.isAdmin!=true
  }

  createsTaskOfType(tasktype){
      input.method="POST"
      input.path=["tasks"]
      input.body.job[_].type=tasktype
  }
  {{< /prism >}}

## Keys

| Key                              | Type      | Description                                                                                              |
| -------------------------------- | --------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `input.body.application`         | `string`  | The name of the application for which the manifest is being scaled.                                      |
| `input.body.description`         | `string`  | Always "Scale Manifest".                                                                                 |
| `input.body.job[].account`       | `string`  | The name of the account in which the manifest will be scaled.                                            |
| `input.body.job[].cloudProvider` | `string`  | The name of the cloud provider in which the manifest is being scaled.                                    |

> | `input.body.job[].location`      | `string`  | The namespace of the manifest beign scaled.                                                              |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `input.body.job[].location`      | `string`  | The namespace of the manifest being scaled.                                                              |
```
